Mapping of GetDimensions overload to builtin functions and LLVM intrinsics (#349)
llvm/wg-hlsl: proposals/NNNN-resources-get-dimensions.md

---
title: "[NNNN] - GetDimensions mapping to builtins and intrinsics"
params:
  authors:
    - github_username: hekota
  status: Under Consideration
  sponsors:
    - github_username: hekota
---

## Introduction

All buffer and texture resources have a `GetDimensions` member function and,
which must be supported across all resource types. There are many different
overloads of this function. This proposal summarizes the variants and outlines
how they can be implemented in Clang using built-in functions, as well as how
they map to LLVM intrinsics.

## Motivation

`GetDimensions` member function on resource classes is part of the HLSL language
and we need to support it in Clang.

## Proposed solution

### Clang builtin functions

> There are 54 `GetDimensions` member function overloads across all resource
> classes. We need to add a number of builtin functions to Clang that will be used
> to implement these. It will most likely amount to one builtin function per
> unique argument list, altough the same builtin function could be used for
> `GetDimensions` overloads that different only in `uint` vs. `float` argument
> types that are otherwise doing the same thing. This should greatly reduce the
> number of needed builtins function.

Reviewer: I rewrote this paragraph to read better in my head. Feel free to use it!
```suggestion
There are 54 `GetDimensions` member function overloads across all resource
classes. We need to add a number of built-in functions to Clang to implement 
these. This will most likely amount to one built-in function per unique argument
list. However, `GetDimensions` overloads that differ only by the types of their
arguments (namely, `uint` vs. `float`) can be consolidated under the same built-in
function, thereby greatly reducing the number of needed built-in functions.
```

Otherwise, you just misspelt the word "altough".

Also note: you used "built-in" on line 16 but "builtin" everywhere else. You could find and replace "builtin" with "built-in" to be more consistent.

In Clang codegen, these builtin functions will be translated into one or more
LLVM intrinsics, depending on the target platform.

### Lowering to DXIL

For DXIL, all `GetDimensions` calls should be lowered to the
`dx.op.getDimensions` DXIL operation, which can likely be represented by a
single LLVM intrinsic. The `dx.op.getDimensions` operation takes a resource
handle and a MIP level as inputs, and returns a struct containing four integers:

`%dx.types.Dimensions = type { i32, i32, i32, i32 }`.
 
Values in this struct correspond to the requested resource dimension values. The
exact mapping depends on the resource type and is documented
[here](https://github.com/microsoft/DirectXShaderCompiler/blob/main/docs/DXIL.rst#getdimensions).

The LLVM intrinsic that maps to the DXIL op could look something like this:

```

> {i32, i32, i32, i32} llvm.dx.resource.getdimensions(target("dx.*",..) resource_handle, i32 mip_level)

Reviewer: Missing an `@` in the intrinsic definition?
```suggestion
{i32, i32, i32, i32} @llvm.dx.resource.getdimensions(target("dx.*",..) resource_handle, i32 mip_level)
```
